[ Music ]
>> Lisa Garr: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of Gaiam Inspirations.
Do you sometimes wonder why
you do the things you do,
or why do you always attract
the same type of relationship,
or maybe attract the same type
of victimhood in your life.
Well, if you want to find the
answers to these questions
and begin to break through
these mental barriers,
my guest today Joe Nunziata says
it all starts with your past.
Joe has been helping
people transform their lives
for the past 25 years, and his
latest book, "Karma Buster,"
talks about how to heal
yourself and create the life
that you were meant to live.
Welcome, thanks for being here.
>> Joe Nunziata:
Thank you, Lisa.
So great to be here, thank you.
>> Lisa: So great.
You come from a background
in sales and marketing.
Now you've written about karma.
Why is that?
>> Nunziata: Yeah,
kind of a crazy thing.
I started my career in sales and
marketing and then later got
involved in metaphysical work
and energy work, and again,
it's been a big part of my life.
I started to integrate those
principles into business,
and then little by little
started to go deeper and deeper,
and now really doing a
lot of clearing work,
and working with people and
people's karma and energy
and helping people heal.
So it's been certainly an
interesting trip.
>> Lisa: Now where did you --
why did you make that
transition, though, from sales
and marketing and then being
interested in metaphysical life
and karma and so forth?
>> Nunziata: Well, you know,I
was always interested in kind of
even as a very young kid I
was reading the success books
and the goal-setting books.
I was always doing
that kind of work.
Then as I got a little
bit older I started to go
through problems, I started
to have a lot of issues,
unresolved issues, went
through bankruptcies.
I was having all these
different upsets,
so I actually began with
therapy, which Italian kids
from Brooklyn don't
do, by the way.
You know, that's not what we do.
So I started out with therapy
and I did that for a while,
a couple of years, and
it really helped me begin
to see things differently and
frame things in a different way.
And from that position I started
to learn more how
your mind works,
and started to take classes,
and then started to learn about
metaphysical principles.
As you know you start
meeting different teachers,
and it just kind
of went from there.
>> Lisa: Goes on from there.
So tell me a little bit
about your childhood,
growing up as a kid in Brooklyn,
and where did you
grow up, what area?
>> Nunziata: Well, I'm actually
from Williamsburg, Brooklyn,
which now has become very hip.
When I was there
it wasn't that hip.
Then it got really
bad at one point,
and now it's become
a very nice area.
But it's kind of lower middle
class part of Brooklyn.
My dad was a New York City
cop, my mom stayed home,
I had a younger sister.
So you know, we lived
in a building,
and you know, kind of thing.
Played in the street
in front of the house.
It was a normal kind
of a situation.
We moved, actually, the
upgrade was going from Brooklyn
to Queens, which is
the next part over,
which is a little more
suburban, so that was --
>> Lisa: That was the upgrade.
>> Nunziata: That
was a big step up.
>> Lisa: And your father being
a New York City police officer,
was that rough on the family?
>> Nunziata: Yeah.
He was never home.
He actually started
as a regular officer,
then became a detective
in narcotics.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Nunziata: So I remember
-- you know, it's funny,
we were talking about
this earlier,
but I remember growing up, him
never being home for dinner,
never one dinner that
he was in the house.
So he was never around, he
was kind of always working,
and even on the weekend
he'd come in and go out.
So he was really out
there, constantly working
and doing whatever he was doing.
>> Lisa: Did he ever
bring home that mentality
or that frustration or was he
exhausted when you did see him?
>> Nunziata: Yeah, he was
good when you saw him,
he was kind of, you know,
not around that much.
He was -- and he was distracted.
I would say very
distracted and very involved
in what he was doing, and
going through his own issues,
which of course I
didn't know then.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Nunziata: But
certainly understand now.
>> Lisa: Then at one
point he didn't come home?
>> Nunziata: Yeah.
When I was 12 years old he
actually went out one day
and was -- as it turns
out, was murdered.
We didn't know what happened.
When he first died they
said it was a suicide.
We didn't really
know what happened.
That was back in the '70s.
>> Lisa: How old were you?
>> Nunziata: I was 12.
And I remember, you know, coming
home from school and finding
out what had happened, and
then that was it, and obviously
that was the end of it.
>> Lisa: You -- you tell the
story in one of your books
about the officers
coming to your house.
Tell me a little bit about
that memory, if you don't mind.
>> Nunziata: Well, I remember --
you know, I actually got there,
the officers came to see
my mom and then I got home
after school, and I
remember walking in
and seeing all these
people in the house.
It was the middle of the week
and of course I didn't
know what was going on.
I remember my mom grabbing me
and saying daddy went to heaven.
It was just one of those things.
It's a very -- you know,
just a shocking thing,
because he was 38 years
old, and you come home,
you're a kid coming
home from school.
I remember it was March in
New York, it was just starting
to get a little nicer weather.
I was walking home
with my friend,
we had just gotten
baseball cards.
It was kind of like a normal --
just amazing, and I
think what was wonderful
about the experience for me
now, obviously going back,
was you see how your
whole life can be
so immediately changed
in one moment.
And it's something I don't
think we think about.
I think we get up every
day, we go to work,
or we do whatever we're doing,
our kids go to school.
And you don't think of
all of these things.
And all of a sudden
when something
like that happens,
it stays with you.
>> Lisa: Oh yeah.
>> Nunziata: And now
when something happens
to me, it's almost like oh,
okay.
Anything can -- you start at
a young age I realized, oh,
anything can happen
at any moment.
>> Lisa: Did that cause
you to live your life
in a more conscious way
now or are you more in fear
of life changing at any moment?
>> Nunziata: I think I
was very fearful younger.
I know as a younger person
I had tremendous fear
of that happening to me,
because you're like, oh, okay,
this happened to my dad who
I saw as this super hero,
tough guy cop, rough
kind of guy,
very athletic, very physical.
You know, kind of --
you saw your father --
you know, most people see
their dads like that ,
but he was really like that.
He was a former baseball player,
played for the New York Giants
in the minor leagues, I mean,
so this guy was like, you know,
he was like a -- so for that to
happen to him, was like, wow,
you know, anything can happen.
So just really shatters
your reality a little.
>> Lisa: If you don't
mind going back
into that story a little bit,
that time, it was a conspiracy
that happened within the
police department, right?
So there was betrayal
there as well, right?
>> Nunziata: Yes.
>> Lisa: Can you tell us
a little bit about that?
>> Nunziata: Well, it was funny,
because when he passed it was
a lot of corruption in New York
at that time, in New York City.
So my mother got no pension
because they said
he killed himself.
And there was really -- but
what came out later which was
so fascinating, and
of course I found this
all out as I got older,
I didn't know at 12.
As I got older I started
to talk to people and some
of his former cops
that worked with him.
>> Lisa: At what age
did you start to --
>> Nunziata: I was probably,
like late teens, 18, 19. I
started to, you know, get in
there.
And what has happened was he had
been shot with his own gun.
And he was left handed.
And the bullet kind
of entered his chest
in a certain way up here.
So one of the things
they said, well,
it's almost virtually
impossible for him to do that at
that angle, and our attorney
for the family said I want
to get the clothing, because
the clothing will prove
if he did it.
Because if he did it, his hand
would have to be very close
and there would be powder
burns on the clothing.
So when they went to get
the clothing it was missing.
So this would have
proved, you know,
that this was not possible.
So there's all this
corruption going on.
So we didn't get any money,
which of course was another
whole tremendously stressful
circumstances that my mom, you
know, it was very hard for her,
a 12-year-old and my
10-year-old sister.
>> Lisa: And she was
not working at the time.
>> Nunziata: Not working at the
time, had not worked in years,
since we were kids, you
know, was a stay at home mom.
And you're not getting
any pay --
the whole thing was just very
traumatic on many levels.
And I knew -- so for years
I'm kind of saying, well,
we never really knew
what happened.
>> Lisa: Was it because your
instinct was telling you there's
no way he could have
committed suicide.
>> Nunziata: I think you never
want to think, of course,
that your dad did that.
I don't care who you are, you
just don't want to think that.
My mom kind of I
think thought he did.
And kind of made us feel
a little bit like he did.
But my side of it was always
kind of saying, well,
there's too many
holes in this story.
Especially as I was getting
older and learning more things.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Nunziata: So
I always kind of
had that feeling
that that was not true,
but I didn't know.
Some days it kind of
went back and forth.
>> Lisa: Did you ever want
to go back and be a detective
or follow in his footsteps?
At any moment did that
thought cross your mind?
>> Nunziata: No.
>> Lisa: No?
>> Nunziata: I remember my mom,
I was really small, and she said
if you ever become a cop
I'll kill you myself.
So it was kind of like --
that was not part
of the conversation that
we were going to have.
It's one of those things where
she said to me, you know,
that is not happening.
Don't even think -- not
that I was even thinking
about it, but --
>> Lisa: But in an
interesting way, and this part
of the story is amazing,
that you found
out through a very
metaphysical way.
Tell us about that?
>> Nunziata: Well, in 1997 I was
actually working selling cable
advertising in New York, on Long
Island, which is where we lived.
So my wife's friend had made an
appointment with John Edward.
Now you know John Edward?
>> Lisa: Yes, the medium.
>> Nunziata: The medium.
Now understand in 1997, he
has no books, no TV shows,
nobody knows who he is.
I didn't know who he was, but
he was kind of known out there.
So once a month you would call
up and make an appointment.
So my wife's friend made an
appointment and couldn't go.
>> Lisa: And he was
in the local area?
>> Nunziata: He was right --
from where I lived he
was 15 minutes away.
And he was doing
this out of his home.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Nunziata: So I'll
never forget.
My wife called me up, and she
said listen, my friend can't go
to this appointment, she
knows you lost your dad,
this guy's a medium,
why don't you go?
You could take the appointment.
Because it was really hard to
get an appointment with him.
I was working, it
was a long time ago,
I was kind of just
dabbling in this work,
not really knowing that much.
And I said all right, you
know, give me the address,
I'll go there, what time
is it, 4:30, 5 o'clock,
I said I'm working, later in the
day I'll take a ride out there.
Didn't really think about it.
And then I started
driving, driving over there.
I started to say what am
I doing, who is this guy,
talking to dead people,
you know,
kind of like a weird thing.
So now you start to
think as we all do,
what could this person be like?
I'm thinking does he have a cape
and a smoke machine, or what --
like a weird guy, like, no idea.
He wasn't known,
he wasn't on TV.
So I get there, and
you've seen him, right?
Regular-looking.
As a matter of fact he had
a T-shirt and jeans on.
Comes to the door, said how
are you doing, I'm John.
He said I have a woman
who was supposed to come.
I said she couldn't come and
I'm taking her appointment.
He said oh, okay.
Just tell me your first name.
He brought me up
into a home office.
So this was supposed to
be -- I'm thinking --
I didn't know what this
guy, has a crystal ball,
I don't know what
he's going to do.
And he brings me into this
very simple home office,
he sits at the desk, he says
okay, this is what I do.
He said don't try to
reach for anything.
I don't decide who
comes through.
We go through this
whole little thing.
He says -- if you've
seen the show,
if it's above it
means they're older,
if I say they're
moderate it's the same,
if I say below they're
younger than you.
He kind of gives you this
little speech before.
And then he just goes into it.
So now we're sitting
there, and I'm kind of --
I purposely went in
a little skeptical.
And I said I'm not going to
give him any information,
that was my, you know,
New York sales guy,
I'm not giving you
anything, you prove it to me.
>> Lisa: Prove it, yeah.
>> Nunziata: Prove to
me you can do this.
So we sit down, and
he says I have Joseph.
My father is Joseph.
But I'm Joseph.
So I said well that's, okay,
that's not that big
of a stretch.
So we're just starting, he said
okay, he's showing me a badge.
But he doesn't wear the uniform
because he was a detective.
And he said he's showing
me a camel hair coat.
And my father had
a camel hair coat
that he wore every single
day, and as a matter
of fact he was an extra
in the French Connection
because those were his
friends who broke that case,
and he's wearing the camel
hair coat in the movie.
So now this is the first ten
seconds of the conversation.
And I'm bolted to my seat,
I'm like, oh my goodness.
Because that wasn't an off the
wall detail, that's a real --
and he starts going into
this thing, and he says well,
you know, your father
died outside,
which he did, he was in a car.
And he said your father
died near his house.
Did he die near your house?
As a matter of fact, he died
about four or five blocks away
from where he grew
up in Brooklyn.
Then he stopped.
It was really interesting,
because you could see he
stopped, he kind of hesitated,
said well, I don't
want to offend you,
but was he involved
with the Mafia.
Because they were
dealing with drug dealers
and all this kind of stuff.
I don't want to offend you,
but this is what's coming in.
And he's telling me
he just wants you
to know he knew the guys who
did it, they got in the back
of the car, they took
his gun, he kind of went
through the whole
of what had happened.
He said I can't tell
you who they are,
but he knows who they are.
And he wants to accept
responsibility
for placing himself in
that dangerous position.
>> Lisa: My goodness.
Gives me chills.
>> Nunziata: So this is --
obviously, that was
a life-changing day.
>> Lisa: Why did he not
tell you who they were?
He couldn't or --
>> Nunziata: He just
said it's not, you know,
it's just not something
that I will do.
So he said -- it
isn't necessary.
It's really for you to
just be at peace with this
to understand what happened,
so you don't carry this
with you another
twenty-five years.
It was already whatever
years at that point,
it had already happened.
>> Lisa: So what did you
do with that information,
you walked out of there,
you were a teenager?
>> Nunziata: No, I was
-- I was in my twenties.
Well, first I got into my car
and I was actually shaking
because you're in that energy,
too, as you know when you're
in the energy of those people
and you're doing that kind
of a circumstances, you do
come out in a different field.
So I'm sitting in the car,
I remember I grabbed a paper
and pen because he said
so many things so quickly.
That I couldn't -- I
was trying to remember,
and I just started writing
things down, and he said numbers
and he said names, and
he said different things.
So I was just trying to
just remember it all.
And then I got home and my
wife said what happened,
and I tell her this whole
unbelievable story.
And that really was
like, okay, that was kind
of a defining moment for me
in a sense that it said okay,
there's something really
happening here that's a lot
bigger than you think.
And then I really started
to dive into the work
at a lot deeper level.
>> Lisa: What about the
unveiled murder of your --
>> Nunziata: That was just --
you know what, that was
just a feeling of closure.
>> Lisa: You didn't go after
that and go back to the --
>> Nunziata: No, no.
Because I didn't -- you know, it
was so long ago at that point,
twenty-some-odd years later.
I felt like okay, that
can't be resolved.
You know, that's -- and I
have no evidence, you know,
what am I supposed to say?
I went to this guy
and he told me.
>> Lisa: You didn't go back at
all, and you weren't curious
to look at any of the
records or anything?
>> Nunziata: You know,
I had looked always
at the old newspapers
and stuff like that.
But there was really
nothing definitive in there.
And I think part of it for me
was just being at peace with it.
Just say okay, you know what,
this is what happened, let
it go. Let it -- that was
the message I got
out of it was just let it go.
You don't need to carry this
burden in your life anymore
of this whole unresolved issue,
that you don't know
what happened.
>> Lisa: What a healing.
>> Nunziata: It was a
tremendously healing experience.
>> Lisa: So that got you started
on your path of the metaphysics?
>> Nunziata: Although I believe
I got started on my path when my
dad passed in a different way.
>> Lisa: What do you mean?
>> Nunziata: As far as I think
when that incident
happened it turned my path,
because it changed the
direction of my life.
And I don't think I would
be doing this work had
that not happened.
So --
>> Lisa: Because you
unveiled a whole other meaning
in life, right?
>> Nunziata: Just
changed everything.
I probably would have been like
-- would have gone to school,
would have gone to college,
probably gotten a
regular career, who knows.
But I don't feel like --
my feeling is I would not
have gone down this road.
>> Lisa: So this road now
leads us to the karma book
and how did you relate what
you know now and have written
and studied a lot
about karma back
to that situation
with your father?
>> Nunziata: Well, the
understanding was --
understanding first
of all what is karma.
Because this is a word that
you hear all over the place.
There's even credit karma --
>> Lisa: Yeah, yeah, there is.
>> Nunziata: So the
word is out there a lot
of I think we've heard it
since we're little kids.
And the old definition
when I talked
to people is what goes
around comes around.
If I do something bad,
something bad happens,
if I do something good
-- which is such a --
it's almost like giving you a
crumb for what it really is.
So as I did the work
I understood
that really was we're here to
do is have an emotional journey.
So your karma is tied to --
I define it as a
blueprint, right?
It's the blueprint for
your emotional journey.
We come here I think in physical
form, we're very mental,
and we think about what
we're going to accomplish
or what we're going to
do, you're doing this work
and you're doing all
these wonderful things.
>> Lisa: We have
strong minds, yes.
>> Nunziata: Strong
-- I'm writing a book,
you're doing this, who's the
architect, who's making a movie,
and we're here in
California, right?
But that's not really what
we're here -- that's --
we're just part of
the experience
to have this emotional
experience.
So I think we place
that experience ahead
of the real experience
that we're here to have,
which is really the
emotional experience.
>> Lisa: Now what about the
religious references to karma?
And I know that you researched
all of that, have you tied any
of that into this book?
>> Nunziata: Not really, because
it was not about religion.
And I grew up Catholic,
which is another whole book
that I have to write on day.
[Laughter] Italian Catholic
growing up in New York.
Which is another --
>> Lisa: Talking about karma.
>> Nunziata: That's
a real other story.
>> Lisa: That's a movie.
>> Nunziata: That's a --
that's a -- definite --
that's like a mini-series.
We have to make that.
>> Lisa: I think it's
called the Sopranos.
>> Nunziata: Oh, it's
already been done.
See, they actually address a lot
of those issues with the mother
and the guilt and all
those feelings and emotions
that come up in that show.
Growing up in that world, that
was very relatable for me,
not that we were gangsters
although we were involved
in some level with
my dad and whatever.
But you know, those feelings
and emotions of the guilt
and the shame and what you're
supposed to do, and the sense
of obligation that we had in
that culture, that was all part
of the experience
that I came to have.
And then break those cycles,
and then start creating
life in a different way.
But all part of my experience
to give you the depth now
to be able to do the work.
And that was always part
of it for me, whenever I go
through my struggles, which
we all do, and say you know,
I don't understand what's
going on, and this is, like,
getting hard, and things
aren't working out.
And then I understood
later to say oh,
you had to understand that,
because that's something you
are now going to teach people.
>> Lisa: My goodness.
So in teaching about
karma, how did you relate
that entire experience that
happened with you as a child
and your father to
a karmic occurrence?
>> Nunziata: Well, the
first thing that I think
that people have to do, and
this is the hardest part,
I really believe this
in the early stages.
Accepting that that
was your path.
So saying this is -- like, this
is
where I think the rubber
meets the road, so to speak.
Because you have a
situation that's difficult
or you have a hard
circumstances,
and we all have it
on some level.
And then you have I can be a
victim, and I can feel sorry
for myself, I can say
look what happened to me,
and I can say wow, my
life was very hard.
And I'm not saying it wasn't, a
lot of people had worse than me,
and worse than you,
and whatever.
But it's the understanding that
that was what you are here to do
and the acceptance of that,
that creates power for you
to say oh, that's why I am here.
Not this happened to me.
>> Lisa: So in your
definition of karma, what is it?
You've given us a wonderful set
of slides here that kind of talk
about this, and you
teach about karma.
What is your definition
of karma?
>> Nunziata: My definition
is it's the blueprint
for the emotional experience
you're here to have.
So you're here, your soul,
let's look at your soul comes
and says okay, this is what
I like to tell people
because I think it
makes it funny.
And I think part of this work
I like to fool around with it
because it can get very heavy.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Nunziata: And we need to
lighten it up a little bit.
>> Lisa: Yeah, it can
go down a long road.
>> Nunziata: A very dark road.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Nunziata: As you know, it
can go down a very bad road.
So what I like to say to people
is imagine before you came you
made a list of feelings
that you came to feel.
I want to feel abandonment,
I want to feel what it feels
like to have no money, I
want to feel what it feels
like to be sick physically.
I want to know -- this is my --
kind of my order
for this lifetime.
And before you came it's
like you placed the
order in a restaurant.
This is what I want to do.
Now you don't know that,
unfortunately, when you come,
to say oh, okay, that's
what I came here to do.
But that's really what happened.
So now you're here
with this blueprint
that you don't know about.
>> Lisa: Having this experience
that you think just
is an accident.
>> Nunziata: Just happening.
>> Lisa: And it isn't.
>> Nunziata: It's not.
>> Lisa: How does this
relate to the chakras.
You have a slide
here of the chakras.
>> Nunziata: Right.
So the chakra system --
the chakras, of course,
which is the ancient
system, right?
The Sanskrit word
meaning spiral.
So you have these chakras
throughout your body.
So what happens is as you're
born, your base or root chakra
immediately, the minute
you're conceived,
begins to develop
from the bottom up.
You absorb energy through
each chakra, through each year
of your life, until you're
about eight years old.
And you're absorbing
all these experiences
in this lifetime which are
in effect creating
that blueprint here.
So even though you came with it,
you need to recreate it here.
So you've had all of those
emotional experiences here
already, but you had
them all as a child.
So once you're about eight
years old you're done.
And then you go out
and just keep going
through these feelings
until you resolve them,
you just keep repeating.
>> Lisa: Repeating them, right.
Okay, so this is essentially
what we're doing is the
evolvement out of karma goes
through and up and out --
you're saying you can
evolve out of karma.
You can understand and
be aware of it enough
and be conscious enough
about your karmic pattern
then eventually not repeat
it by being conscious of it?
>> Nunziata: Well, no.
Not just being --
this is a part that we want
to be very clear about.
>> Lisa: Please.
>> Nunziata: Because this is
where people get
kind of trapped.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Nunziata: People think,
and this has happened a
million times with people,
myself included, because
your ego is a big thing.
That once I get this
in my head, I've got it.
>> Lisa: I'm done with it,
I don't have karma any more.
>> Nunziata: Or I
understand it now,
now I understand what my
problem is, I can control it.
Which is why we have people
in therapy for thirty years
with the same problem.
Because they know
what their problem is,
but they didn't resolve
it emotionally.
>> Lisa: Can you ever
truly break karma?
>> Nunziata: Oh yeah.
>> Lisa: Wow, that is great.
>> Nunziata: We want to
break the cycle or the wheel,
because we're on a wheel.
So what we're doing is --
what we're really doing is we're
breaking the cycle or the wheel
of energy, and then
we can recreate.
>> Lisa: You have a
great proverb here
from the Zen proverb.
It says the obstacle
is the path.
And that is what you're
going through here
is helping us understand
that this is something
that we don't have to repeat.
>> Nunziata: But again, that --
I love the Zen proverbs
because they're very simplistic,
but they're very powerful.
That's my favorite one.
And the reason it's
my favorite is
because it basically
is saying accept
that this is what it is.
The obstacle is the path.
This is what it is.
So once you accept that,
you can read Buddha, it
talks about it, you read -- all
these different philosophers,
you go back and back, life is
about understanding pain
and suffering and
dealing with that,
and understanding
how to go through it.
M. Scott Peck talks
about it in his book,
"The Road Less -- first sentence
of the book is, "Life
is difficult."
He talks about it.
So we have -- but I think
we are in a resistance state
of everything and that's what
creates all the problems for us.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
So accept the fact
that this is the case,
stop trying to Pollyanna
your way out of it,
and stop recycling it.
>> Nunziata: Yeah.
Because now what's happening is
because you're not accepting it,
see you understand everything is
-- energy is always ying yang,
we have positive charge,
we have negative charge.
So I'm either in -- and this
is something that's very easy
for people and one of the
things I teach early on,
to say throughout the day say
to yourself am I in a state
of acceptance or am I in
a state of resistance?
That's all you have to do.
So throughout the day,
and you'll be amazed --
>> Lisa: But what if you're
in the state of resistance?
>> Nunziata: Right.
So now you're at least
-- you know that.
Most people tons know that.
They're living in a state
of tremendous resistance
but they don't know it.
So every day they're embattled.
They come home, they're
beat up, they're tired,
they're fighting their
way through the day
and they're just
fighting and battling,
instead of just saying oh,
I'm resisting everything.
>> Lisa: So with the resistance,
if you just drop the resistance
then it reveals what is?
>> Nunziata: Now
you can be clear.
Because now I'm accepting
that this is what's going on.
>> Lisa: So in this slide that
you have here: recycle, reuse.
That's basically what karma is?
>> Nunziata: That I'm
recycling, I'm on a wheel.
I'm on a cycle or a wheel.
So the wheel is based
on a desire.
So your soul says I want
to feel what it feels
like to be unworthy.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Nunziata: Let's say
that's the feeling.
That at this moment,
because you're going to go --
what happens is, you know,
we used to make a joke,
my teacher who was also funny
with this, she would say well,
you clear one feeling and
then there's another one.
I'm like, thank you very much.
I thought I would be done.
And again, because we're
very linear in our thinking,
because we want to get a
diploma and say I'm done,
I did my chakras, I'm done
now, which it doesn't work out.
>> Lisa: I'm done
with my karma now.
>> Nunziata: My karma is
finished, I can move on.
There's always another feeling.
Now the good news is
as you do the work
for a while you can move through
the feelings very quickly.
In the early days when of
course in my resistance
and negativity, it's
much harder.
So your soul says I
want to feel unworthy.
I want to feel whatever it is.
>> Lisa: And it's going to do
whatever it can to create that.
>> Nunziata: It's
going to create --
unless you are aware
enough to say wow,
I'm feeling unworthy now, I need
to work on that, I don't want
to create a physical experience.
>> Lisa: So in your
case, abandonment.
You said that was one of
the core issues for you?
>> Nunziata: That is
my big core issue.
>> Lisa: It is still?
>> Nunziata: I think to a degree
those core issues are so deep,
and I always work on that one,
and I'm always very aware of it.
And now it is obviously
much, much better.
But it is something that
I still keep an eye on.
>> Lisa: But that's
important that you said that.
So you don't ever
completely get rid of it,
you just have more tools
on how to handle it and see
when it comes up as opposed
to being in resistance to it?
>> Nunziata: Yeah.
And I don't have to
live it, as long as I --
it's almost like saying I
want to be in good shape.
In order to be in good shape
I realize what I have to do.
But the idea that if I don't
I will be gaining weight very
quickly and not be
in good shape.
So that's kind of
what it's like.
It's there, but if I'm not
continuously working on it
and managing it, and
dealing with it myself,
I will bring it back up.
>> Lisa: Got it.
That's a great analogy,
actually.
So -- all right, you talk
about why would we keep
recycling negative energy.
Why would we do that?
If we were aware of it, say
we've gotten to this place
of awareness and awareness
about the abandonment,
do you ask yourself that
question, why would I want
to continually experience
this pain
of abandonment again and again.
So this is kind of a
realization moment, right?
>> Nunziata: Yeah.
You say wow, I keep
repeating this behavior,
I keep creating this.
See the word I always use
with people is creation.
You're creating it,
and people resist that.
They say why would I create --
>> Lisa: Oh, yeah.
Oh no, it is.
I have had -- yeah.
It's a very hard thing to tell
someone if they're in the middle
of a car accident, and you say
well, how did you create that.
That is the last thing
they want to hear.
Never. Yeah.
And so -- but it's in the
long run, is something
like a car accident karmic?
>> Nunziata: You
create a car accident.
You create falling
down a flight of steps.
You create winning the lottery.
>> Lisa: Explain.
>> Nunziata: So my energy
is vibrating a frequency,
your energy, we're all
vibrating a frequency.
So whatever happened that -- it
was so funny because I get all
of your e-mails all the time.
And I said oh, for some reason
that day I got your e-mail,
said you know, I never
sent Lisa this book.
I don't know why, just
popped into my head.
I didn't think twice, just
said, ah I'll send her a card,
your card is --
and you called me
like a week or two later.
And we're here, right?
So we're supposed to be here
now for whatever reason.
So I just acted on my
feeling and just did --
which I do all the time now.
Which before I would have
said oh, I thought about it
and then I forget, oh yeah,
whatever.
So energetically, I am
always creating my life based
on my feelings.
So if I am feeling --
if I'm unable to resolve a
feeling your soul says I'm going
have to create an incident
for you to bring this feeling
into your consciousness.
>> Lisa: Wow, wow.
Interesting.
So that you can get and
act on that feeling.
>> Nunziata: Right.
>> Lisa: So there's -- you
talk about the big three things
that come up around
-- is it around karma?
>> Nunziata: I think it's
around life in general,
but certainly going to be around
karma because we all share this.
The energy is the
same for all of us.
We all have fear, and fear
actually is interesting,
because fear is something that
keeps us in third dimension.
>> Lisa: It keeps us safe.
>> Nunziata: And it keeps us
in third dimensional form.
If you had no fear you couldn't
be here because you'd vibrate
at such a high level
you'd be gone.
>> Lisa: Oh.
Interesting.
>> Nunziata: So that's one.
Shame is another feeling we
all have, because what happened
for us as people, we
left source energy.
>> Lisa: That might be new
for people hearing that,
they might think they're
the only ones with that kind
of shame, because it
only happened to you.
And I completely
understand that.
>> Nunziata: No, everybody.
Because we all left source.
The minute we left source
energy we encounter shame.
Shame is actually
like the original sin.
So that's kind of what it is.
And that feeling
of shame is big.
And of course unworthiness or
being unloved is the last --
those are the three
core feelings
and core issues that
we all work through.
>> Lisa: And unworthiness in
being loved or unloved?
>> Nunziata: Unloved.
>> Lisa: Unloved?
>> Nunziata: You feel
unloved, you feel unworthy.
So if you didn't get love as a
child, which nobody got enough
or what they needed, or
whatever the case may be.
As humans.
So that -- there's
always that feeling
of I'm unlovable, I'm unworthy.
>> Lisa: So these are the
three major fears with people.
>> Nunziata: Core feelings.
>> Lisa: Core feelings
with people.
So how does this
relate to karma?
>> Nunziata: So now we're here
-- if I can cycle through,
as I cycle through different
pieces of my karma I don't have
to feel shame at that level.
I don't have to feel
fear at that level.
I shouldn't feel unworthy.
I should feel very worthy.
>> Lisa: But you're saying
if we're born with these
and they're embedded in our
psyche we still are going
to have them, but we're going to
know how to manage them better?
>> Nunziata: Well, again, you
know, you know it's funny --
here we are in Hollywood,
here we are, in this world,
and you see and you meet these
people, as have I, these people
who are actors and celebrities.
And you think, oh, whatever.
These people are the
most fearful, nervous --
not all of them, but
a lot of these people
who are pretty successful --
and I've met a lot of successful
business people who are nervous.
And you say why,
you're so successful
and everything is great, why?
It's something innate,
I think in all people --
and I think part of it is good.
>> Lisa: I mean, I think some of
that fear makes them successful.
>> Nunziata: Absolutely.
I think it's good.
>> Lisa: Vulnerable.
>> Nunziata: Part of it
is what makes us great.
Because I never feel like
-- wow, you're great --
hey, I'm doing the best,
I'm doing everything,
I'm doing what I can do.
I want to keep aware of that.
And it was funny,
because years ago I went
to see a trance medium.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Nunziata: A trance medium,
goes into a trance and connects
with these beings
from the other side.
There's all the stuff that
I do and then you know,
I can talk to you about it.
>> Lisa: This is great,
no, this is great.
So you obviously went down
the medium path after that.
>> Nunziata: This was another
guy that I met
through somebody else, but yeah,
anyway,
he was different because he went
into a trance and he connects
to these beings, and then
you ask him questions.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Nunziata: So that was one
of my questions, I said listen,
we're working with these
issues, you're doing better
and you're moving in the right
direction, are they gone?
And he gave me a visual
that I always remember.
And he said it's kind of
like worms under the ground.
And he said they're looking
for a soft spot to pop out of.
>> Lisa: Okay.
Okay.
>> Nunziata: So think about it.
When it's cold weather, it's
hard, the ground is hard,
they can't get through.
But they're always
waiting for a spot.
So it was kind of like him
saying those core feelings are
always there, but you can now
manage them in an effective way
if you are vigilant with
the work on yourself.
>> Lisa: Okay.
That makes sense.
Now what about desires, what
does this have to do with it?
This next slide has
to do with desires.
>> Nunziata: Right.
So you have these
desires to feel emotions,
because that's what
your soul wants to do.
Your soul wants to
feel a certain desire.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Nunziata: So now what we do
is
because we resist is we
don't allow ourselves
to feel that feeling.
>> Lisa: What -- are you
talking about feelings like love
or friendship or those
types of feelings?
>> Nunziata: Generally,
we all have a desire
to feel love and be loved.
But your soul wants to feel
all of these negative feelings,
abandonment, unworthiness,
whatever it is.
So you have -- that's part
of your karmic process is
to say wow, I came here
to feel abandonment,
I came here to feel unworthy,
I came here to feel unloved.
So that's what I'm
wanting to do.
So that comes to me as this
deeper desire to feel a feeling.
But my natural brain says, well,
you don't want to feel that.
And you resist.
>> Lisa: Right.
Right. And that's part -- so
I want to go back to the part
of how do you break
the cycle of karma.
>> Nunziata: Okay, so let's
go through that process.
>> Lisa: And then I know
-- yes, I want to know how.
How do you break that.
And especially when it has
to do with other people.
Like there's people in
your life that are there
for karmic reasons,
and you might
or might not be aware of it.
How do you break that pattern so
you're not repeating that again?
>> Nunziata: So what
happens is we first want
to address what I feel.
So let's talk about --
because it's really an
emotional process.
So the first thing that happens
is let's say I do something
to you.
Let's say I don't show up.
You would be angry.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Nunziata: You'd say geez,
Joe is supposed to be here,
and I have a whole
studio set up.
And how would you feel?
>> Lisa: I waoul --
disrespected.
>> Nunziata: So that's --
I disrespected you, right?
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Nunziata: So then that
would mean your soul --
you probably first
would be angry.
So what we have is we have
the surface feeling which is
that first, I'm angry,
I'm upset, I'm something.
But then underneath
would be disrespected.
So now you have to be able
to say what do I really feel.
>> Lisa: So you're not saying
that if you didn't show up,
that I killed you in a past
life and that's repeating --
>> Nunziata: No, no.
>> Lisa: You're not going
down that road of karma.
You're going down something
more on the emotional level?
>> Nunziata: Yes.
>> Lisa: Okay.
Got it.
>> Nunziata: And that could have
been something that happened,
you know, that's a
whole another story,
that's another show.
But basically, let's say
you feel disrespected.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Nunziata: Now I would say to
somebody is this, listen, okay,
so what generally happens,
and this is the trap
for people also, you'd
be mad at me, right?
You'd be mad at me, you
say I'm angry at Joe
because he did not
come to the studio.
What I really should be doing
is saying how do I feel.
I feel disrespected.
Now the next question I would
ask you is who made you feel
that way when you were younger.
And it's be, generally,
one of your parents.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Nunziata: So you say well,
my dad always disrespected
my opinions and what I did.
And that would tell you you have
an unresolved emotional issue
with your dad.
>> Lisa: And that's
what you call karma?
>> Nunziata: Well, that's the --
that's part of the --
that's the feeling.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Nunziata: So the feeling
of disrespect was the
feeling you wanted to feel.
You picked a father
to disrespect you,
so you could have the experience
of being disrespected.
And then now unresolved, that
unresolved feeling would come
up again for you in your life.
>> Lisa: Can you have
the opposite experience?
So if, in your emotional
reserves where you wanted
to experience love again
because in a past life you were
abandoned and betrayed
and not loved,
can you say that you came
back or choose these parents
to really, truly love you?
>> Nunziata: You can, if
that is what you came --
if that was your order
when you came in.
Right? Did I come here
to say well now I want
to have this experience.
We always -- understand, we
always did come to feel some
of these bad feelings,
or we would consider
negative feelings.
They're really just
your journey.
So it's kind of a -- you know,
somebody may pick an easier path
with loving parents this time,
say that's what I want to feel,
I want to have this
different experience.
>> Lisa: Okay, so starting
the shift and how to do this,
and you have a clear -- I like
clear slides on how to do this.
So you start off by
elevating your awareness.
And then identifying
the feelings and beliefs
that are holding you
back at the core level.
So that's either fear,
shame, abandonment.
>> Nunziata: Or in this case,
we said disrespected, right?
That would be the feeling, I
have this feeling of disrespect.
>> Lisa: Okay.
Now here's the one that
caught my eye.
Then do the opposite.
Take the opposite action.
What do you mean by that?
>> Nunziata: You know, it's
funny, I use this a lot
with people, especially
who have a lot
of approval-seeking
issues, which we all do.
Approval-seeking again is
I didn't get enough love.
And let's say, for example,
and I actually talk about this,
because that's a great
example for people
because everybody
has it on some level.
Let's say you grew
up in a family
where you did not receive
the love you wanted.
And the only time you got any
kind of positive feedback was
when you did something
for everyone else.
You know, oh, I did what
my mom wanted,
or I went to the store, or
I did this or a did that.
Now what happened was
your energy field,
your belief system says well, I
get love, which it's really not,
when I do something
for someone else.
So I'm now going to go out into
the world and look to do things
for everyone else,
so I can get love.
>> Lisa: So I can get love.
Okay.
>> Nunziata: Right.
Now I'm in approval-seeking
energy.
That's my energy.
My energy is now
in that vibration,
I will keep bringing people
in who want me to do things
for them because that's what
I am looking to do, right?
And you keep doing it.
So now that has become a
core part of who you are.
And you think you're good
when you do these things
for everybody else.
Now on the other side of
it, you generally get upset
because somewhere down the
road it doesn't work out.
>> Lisa: Or then you
fall into that story
of I'm always doing
things for everybody else,
how come I don't
get any support.
>> Nunziata: Now I'm a victim.
>> Lisa: Yes.
That's the shadow side of it.
>> Nunziata: Here's
what happens.
So now I say to you, okay,
you're an approval-seeking
person,
you have all these people
asking you for favors,
what would be the opposite?
>> Lisa: Me asking
them for a favor?
>> Nunziata: Well, first would
be you not doing them a favor.
>> Lisa: Right.
Okay.
>> Nunziata: Before we get to
you asking, let's first say no.
We can't jump to the asking.
The asking is a little harder.
But the first thing for these
people to do would be to say no.
>> Lisa: No, I just had this
conversation with someone
about me just being very
giving, just constantly giving.
And it's not even in my realm
of awareness to ask for help.
>> Nunziata: Which is
something I have as well.
So what we want to do is
we want to seek balance.
And balance meaning I could
ask, and I can also offer.
Or I can give help, but
I could also get help.
But in the beginning
because you're so extremely
in that side you
have to learn to --
almost like swing yourself
all the way to the other side
and say no to everything.
>> Lisa: That's true.
That is the initial --
to exercise that muscle
that hasn't been
exercised for a long time.
>> Nunziata: But to deal with
the feeling of what happens,
what happens now when you
say no, how do you feel?
>> Lisa: Oh gosh.
All sorts of feelings come up.
I get scared to say no,
I am fearful to say no,
I think if I say no
they won't like me,
that no is no permanently.
[Laughter]
>> Nunziata: What
do you actually --
think about it from --
you're going through things.
But think about what you feel.
If I say Lisa, can you do
me a favor, and you say no.
What is the feeling
emotionally that comes
through you as you say that?
>> Lisa: Initially, the
word anger comes up.
>> Nunziata: Hmm.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
Because it's anger from all
of those times where I said yes
and got taken advantage of,
which isn't really being
taken advantage of,
it's allowing myself to be.
>> Nunziata: So you're
angry at yourself.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Nunziata: So meaning
you're in self-judgment.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Nunziata: Which is not good.
And then what's the
other feeling?
>> Lisa: That comes
up when I say no?
>> Nunziata: Yeah.
You're not doing it now.
Right? You're not helping.
Which brings up a very
powerful emotion for people.
>> Lisa: For me it seems
like I would be missing
out on an opportunity to
either participate in something
or help something out.
It feels like I missed --
>> Nunziata: But that's
your rationalization, right?
It's not your emotion.
>> Lisa: What's the --
>> Nunziata: So the
common would be guilt.
>> Lisa: Oh.
Yes.
>> Nunziata: Right?
I feel guilty because, you know,
hey, Lisa asked me to drive her
to the airport and I said no.
So that shows you, right?
That you rationalize,
which is what we all do.
Rationalize it.
>> Lisa: It's perfect.
I get to use myself
as a guinea pig.
This is great.
>> Nunziata: It's fantastic.
This is me all day
with my own self.
>> Lisa: This is just
a therapy session,
this really isn't a show.
It's just on camera.
>> Nunziata: It's
really not a show.
So again, think about it,
you would feel guilty, right?
If I said can you help me with
something and you said no.
And not knowing just maybe
you're just not available,
you're not around, whatever
it is, it's a legit reason
that you're not doing it.
But you would feel guilt.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Nunziata: Right?
So that feeling of guilt
you have to then sit
with it and be okay with it.
>> Lisa: Okay.
God, that's great.
>> Nunziata: That's how I get
powerful to say,
I can say no, it
doesn't make me bad.
>> Lisa: I would think of other
ways I could make up for it,
or do something else
for them, I would justify it.
Right? I wouldn't sit --
you're saying sit with
that feeling of guilt?
>> Nunziata: And so
what you have to do,
because what happens is, this
is how you're strengthening --
talking about strengthening
that muscle, right?
When I say no -- see, this
happened to me with my family,
because my family used
guilt to always --
because Italians are very tied
up in every single thing that's
happening, you have to be there.
And even if they call you,
I called you, you know,
3 o'clock in the afternoon,
and it's 5 o'clock,
you're not coming,
you just called me.
And I would drive myself crazy
to get there, because I knew
if I didn't go there
in my belief system
at the time, I was bad.
I am now a bad person.
Because I did not go.
So as I got more powerful
and started doing this work,
I said I have to
start saying no,
even if I have nothing to do.
It was almost like on
principle, I have to do this.
Say no. So now you
might feel guilty.
Now I'm getting all the
pushback from everyone
because they're saying
you can't say no.
>> Lisa: And --
>> Nunziata: But I had
to sit with the guilt
and just say you know,
I have to ride this out,
and allow myself to feel guilty.
>> Lisa: And then what happened?
>> Nunziata: As I
started feeling guilty
and allowing myself to feel
it, here's what happens.
As you allow yourself
to feel it,
you start dissolving the guilt.
>> Lisa: Isn't it
amazing how that happens.
>> Nunziata: So you dissolve it.
So now as you do it
again, not as hard.
>> Lisa: Do it again.
>> Nunziata: Do it again.
Do it again.
All of a sudden you say oh,
this is about me doing
what's best for myself.
>> Lisa: Taking care of you.
And then you defected to
California, you just moved.
>> Nunziata: That,
you know, it's funny,
because we had been talking
about this for a couple
of years, and I was always --
I had come out here a lot
because I was doing work
out here. I was coming out here
like three, four times a year.
And then my family
came a few times.
And I kept saying, you know, one
day I'd like to move out here.
I said just even if
we try it for a while.
Whatever it is.
We just kind of started
having that conversation.
And then my son wanted
to go to school out here,
we had kind of a reason to go.
And we did it in like
a five-week period.
Part of it was for us,
karmically, for my wife --
my wife and I have been
together for a very long time,
and my son is 20 years old,
and we've been together --
married 23 years, and we have
this unbelievable healing
relationship, but
part of it was we had
to get away from that energy.
>> Lisa: So you realized
that as a team you had
to get away from that?
>> Nunziata: Yeah.
And I think our higher
selves on a karmic,
energetic level said you
need to remove yourself
so you can really get
your energy settled
and cleared once and for all.
>> Lisa: And then how did
that go over with the family?
>> Nunziata: Well, you know, I
think we did it very quickly.
So it wasn't like we said
hey, two years from now.
We said -- we told everybody,
we did it -- we decided quickly,
and we did it within
four or five weeks.
So everybody was kind
of like -- shocked.
And I think there
was some disbelief.
There was definitely
that undercurrent
of you're leaving us guilt.
And you know, why are you doing
this, and what's going on.
So I think part of it was --
so we definitely had to
go through those feelings
and emotions, my wife as well
because she's very connected,
and her dad just passed
a few years earlier.
So we had all of these different
emotional issues going on.
>> Lisa: But you sat with them,
and you moved through them.
And now you're here?
>> Nunziata: Now we're here.
>> Lisa: And this
explains the next slide.
So you're starting
with the shift.
Elevate your awareness,
we talked about this.
Taking the opposite action,
which is what you kind of did.
And then now you get to
focus on what you want.
All right, so tell
me about that?
>> Nunziata: So now -- I think
this is a critical thing for us,
because if you say to somebody
how often during the day, are
you focusing on what you want, I
don't think many people are
putting a lot of attention in
that space
to say this is really
what I want in my life,
this is the kind of life --
and I don't mean what
you want, say, a new car.
What kind of life do you want
to have, what do you want
to do every day, what
are your experiences,
how do you want to
live your life?
And I think that's something
that people are not doing.
So how often do people sit there
and say yeah, what do I want.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
How do I want to feel.
>> Nunziata: And when I
do it, I feel selfish.
>> Lisa: That's not
the idea though, right?
>> Nunziata: No.
But that's how people
feel because they're
so removed from that idea.
>> Lisa: So when you moved, and
we're using this as an example,
to California, how did you feel?
>> Nunziata: I -- you
know, in the beginning,
it was a -- it was a hard --
>> Lisa: Honestly, yeah?
>> Nunziata: It was a difficult
beginning, because it was kind
of like, okay, we're going to up
root ourselves, move everybody,
move across the country, do
this whole dramatic thing.
We were all, you know,
my -- the three of us,
my wife of course grew up in
New York, we were always there.
Very involved with
these families,
tremendously meshed
with everybody there.
So breaking that cycle, talk
about breaking the cycle, right?
That was a very dramatic,
traumatic thing to do.
So I had to emotionally
go through those --
I felt guilty, I felt
like I should be there.
But I had to process all of
that emotion within myself.
And it took a while.
I would say the first
year we were here,
we were only here two years,
but I would say the first
year a lot of that went on.
And I think -- my wife
actually went back many times,
I only went a couple of times,
she went back many times.
And I think little by
little she has had to work
through her issues with
her family and so forth.
But it was a difficult
transition.
>> Lisa: But now -- how
are you feeling now?
>> Nunziata: Now I feel great.
Now I feel like we've
settled into here,
my son got into the
school he wanted to,
that was a big part
of why we came.
He came here when he was still
in high school, so he did get
into that school, which is a
big validation, by the way.
And then I think now we've kind
of said okay, we're here,
we're good, this is
where we are for now.
Accept that you're here, I
think we're all kind of united
as a united front now, and I
think we've all settled into it.
So now things are really
starting to get better.
>> Lisa: So you have shifted?
>> Nunziata: Yes.
>> Lisa: And you made a shift
and you're able to pay attention
to the feelings that
you have now?
>> Nunziata: And part of it is
you have to be willing to ride
out the rough part of it.
>> Lisa: That's a very
important part of this.
>> Nunziata: Very
important part.
You've got to say,
well, you know what,
when I make a shift I
have to ride it out.
When you start telling
people no, you're going
to get negative pushback.
You have to ride that out.
>> Lisa: So as you say in
this next slide, what happens
when you shift your focus, have
other opportunities come up now
as a result of you shifting your
focus, and not being focused
on the guilt but looking
at being at peace with it?
>> Nunziata: Yeah,
not at first.
It took a little while.
I kind of went through -- and
I think we go through this,
I call it a gray zone.
So you go through this,
like, emotional experience,
and you go through this
cleansing experience,
and then I went into a gap.
And part of the gap was I
really wanted to just be quiet.
So I just kind of pulled
myself out because I needed
to get myself out of the whole
scene of what I was doing.
I actually for about six, seven
months, didn't do any classes,
didn't do any coaching, didn't
do anything, and took a break.
And then started to do
some more corporate work.
And now I'm just starting to
pick up my momentum again,
and things are happening, things
are happening, we had the book
as I said in the Academy
Award gift bag last year,
gifting suites.
>> Lisa: Great idea.
>> Nunziata: So we had a couple
of things last year that started
to pick those things up.
But for a while I was
almost in a vacuum.
I need to just give myself
this time, which is something
that we also have to do.
>> Lisa: Which you did.
Here's a picture
of you with some
of the people at the Emmy's.
That was a great idea.
So these are new opportunities
coming up for you as a result
of living in Los Angeles.
>> Nunziata: Yeah.
Like -- being here, right?
If I wasn't out here I wouldn't
be here, and things like that.
>> Lisa: It's great.
Your life is a story of how
to release that type of karma.
And that's the book.
It came out a couple
of years ago.
Oops. Okay, so this whole thing
came about because of your story
and your past and your life.
What did you do about the
marketing side of all of that?
>> Nunziata: You know, the
marketing side, you know,
it's just kind of I guess a
branding issue to a degree.
Part of it I've kind of
now evolved out of the --
into this spiritual world,
but business as well,
so I do spiritual business work
with enlightened entrepreneurs
and people who want to do that.
Then I also still do the
straight hey, you want to work
on yourself and work on
your energy and your karma.
So I've been able to blend
those two things together.
I really feel like
now at this time --
I was just telling
you before we started,
I'm working with a company now,
and I think we really need
to bring this into
the corporate world.
Because the corporations have a
lot of power, and they are at --
they are really not functioning
in an enlightened manner.
>> Lisa: Do corporations
have karma?
>> Nunziata: I think
corporations --
I think everything
is a living entity.
So a business like anything else
does have a karmic signature
to it.
>> Lisa: Or the karma
of the people
that the collective people that
are in the group agreement.
>> Nunziata: The
treatment of the people,
how the people are treated,
the energy of the company.
Now as we're moving into higher
vibration the companies must
start to align with
doing the right thing
for everybody involved.
Are they doing that,
are they not doing that.
And I believe as we go
forward the companies
that are not doing that,
and there are many,
are going to start -- we
already saw this happen in 2008.
>> Lisa: Yes, yes.
>> Nunziata: And really,
I really believe had the country
not bailed these companies
out, we would have been
much further along
where we need to be.
And I think it actually
set us back a little bit.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
It did. I was just
about to say that.
Let me sum up exactly how
you break the cycle of karma,
or actually would
you sum that up.
How do you do that?
Letting go, being
aware of it, what else?
>> Nunziata: Ultimately,
you have to allow yourself
to feel the feeling that
you've been resisting.
So if I am feeling unloved
I have to feel that.
If I'm feeling guilty,
as we talked about before
with the approval-seeking
thing, you doing me a favor
or not doing me a favor.
So once, as I allow myself
to feel the feeling,
the emotion dissolves.
But this is hard to do.
>> Lisa: Well, to
be aware of it.
So say in a relationship
and a couple got a divorce,
did they complete that
karma by getting the divorce
or will they only do that
as they get into the feeling
of the reason why
the divorce happened,
and then they can start to
resolve and create newly.
>> Nunziata: Right.
So we have people who get
married multiple times,
they can't -- because they
never cleared the energy.
So if I get a divorce and it's
been an enlightening experience,
and I realize okay, this
is not what I wanted,
and I went through the
emotion of that divorce,
and I understand what happened.
Now I can go out and
create a better relationship
or attract the right person.
If I don't --
>> Lisa: You're going
to keep creating it over
and over and over again --
>> Nunziata: Same exact thing.
>> Lisa: Which is exactly
how I started the show,
by saying have you been a
pattern of your victimhood
or a pattern
of bad relationships,
or repeat patterns.
So your sense of karma is more
about the repeated emotional
patterns in your life as opposed
to specific karma with somebody.
From a past life.
>> Nunziata: And that
is part of it as well,
because you will bring people
into your life that you knew
from past lifetimes and
resolve relationships
with them from the past.
Those are all elements of karma.
>> Lisa: How would you know
that your relationships exist?
Are, like, your family members
and your children automatically
people that you have karma with?
>> Nunziata: Most people are.
Most of the families and
close people you encounter
in your life that
you've had some kind
of history with them somewhere.
>> Lisa: Or not so close,
work relationships, bosses.
>> Nunziata: Right.
Could be anybody.
Yeah. People that you have had
some kind of experience with.
>> Lisa: Let me ask
you that for a second.
If you have a boss that you
have a lot of contention with,
look at the emotion that
that contention brings up
and you're likely to find the
karmic relationship there.
Sit with the feelings
and they'll dissolve.
>> Nunziata: So I had a woman,
I'll give you an example
because you're using a boss.
Comes to me, tells me she
has this abusive boss,
and the guy is yelling at her
to make her feel terrible, blah,
blah, blah, and as
I start talking
to her all she did
was defend the boss.
Well, he's under
a lot of pressure,
and this is what's going on.
So as we did the work and I
said what are you feeling.
Well, I feel unappreciated.
I really feel like he doesn't
appreciate the work I do.
So who made you feel
unappreciated?
My father.
Who's the boss?
Your father.
So what did you do?
You brought your father in,
because your father made you
feel unappreciated.
You didn't process that feeling,
so you brought your boss in,
and you did exactly the
same thing when I asked you
about your father, defended him.
>> Lisa: So then
what, she realized it?
>> Nunziata: So she
worked through the feeling
of being unappreciated.
Now here's what happened.
This was the miraculous thing.
A few months later
she said to me -- we had
finished doing the work, and I
still kept in contact with her,
she said you're not going
believe what happened.
He got transferred.
>> Lisa: Interesting.
Interesting.
>> Nunziata: So once
she cleared the energy,
her soul said you don't
need to do this anymore.
So your soul will resolve it,
because your soul will say okay,
you're done, that
person will be gone
or the other person will come
in, or whatever has to happen.
>> Lisa: And most likely in that
circumstance she will then
create more opportunities.
>> Nunziata: Or attract
a much better situation,
or a boss that makes
her feel appreciated
and the work she's
doing it valuable.
But it -- she didn't do
it -- she said you know,
I didn't do anything,
but she really did,
she did it with herself.
She said I didn't do
anything with him.
>> Lisa: That's a great example.
That's a perfect example.
Well, thank you so much
for enlightening us
and being with us here today.
You made something that
is complex very simple.
>> Nunziata: That is my --
that is my mission in this
lifetime is to demystify
and make this -- I
always say I want
to make spirituality
user-friendly.
>> Lisa: Very nice, very nice.
Well, thank you again.
>> Nunziata: Thank you, Lisa.
>> Lisa: And if you would
like to watch the replay
of my interview with
Joe Nunziata or share it
with your friends,
go to gaiamtv.com.
And until next time I
invite you stay inspired.
[ Music ]